docs-code/content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "Fogify: A Fog Computing Emulation Framework"
description = ""
disableReadmoreNav = true
+++

<div class="row py-3">
    <div class="col-md-12" style="text-align: justify">
      <div class="container">
        <p class="lead">Fogify is an emulation Framework easing the modeling, deployment and experimentation of fog testbeds. 
            Fogify provides a toolset to: model complex fog topologies comprised of heterogeneous resources, 
            network capabilities and QoS criteria; deploy the modelled configuration and services using popular 
            containerized infrastructure-as-code descriptions to a cloud or local environment; experiment, measure and evaluate the deployment by injecting faults and adapting the configuration at runtime to test different 
            "what-if" scenarios that reveal the limitations of a service before introduced to the public.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
</div>    

---

### Features

<div class="row py-3">
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-microchip fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2 " style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Resources Heterogeneity
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					Fogify is able to emulate Fog nodes with heterogeneous resources and capabilities.
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-network-wired fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Network Links Heterogeneity
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					Controlling the link quality,  such  as  network  latency,  bandwidth,  error  rate,  etc.,and  even  reproduce  real-world  node-to-node  and  node-to-network connection traces
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-bug fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Controllable  Faults  and  Alterations
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
                 Changes on  running  topology  by  injecting  faults,  alter  network  quality,and inject (varying) workload and compute resources				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-cloud fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Any-scale  Experimentation
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted" >
				   Scalability  from  topologies  with  a  limited number of nodes, capable to run on a single laptop or PC, tohundreds or thousands nodes, running on a whole cluster.				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-search fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Monitoring Capabilities
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					 Collect, manage, and process metrics from emulated Fog Nodes, network connections, and application-level information seamlessly
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-file-code fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Rapid  Application  Deployment
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted" >
                    Functional prototypes of an applications, written in docker-compose, demand no modifications to its business logic in order run on Fogify.				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

---
### Who can use the Fogify Framework?

<div class="row justify-content-center"  style="text-align: center">
	<div class="col-lg-4 justify-content-center">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="developer.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					IoT Service Developers
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">
					who wish to ease the testing of their services in geo-distributed fog settings. 
					With the proposed stack, developers design fog enabled services by using Fogify to rapidly perform multiple tests and compare both well-functionality and performance.
				</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-lg-4">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="researcher.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					Academic Researchers
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">
					who wish to quickly assess algorithms for fog realms. Such users want to quickly perform their 
analysis over system prototypes, testing scenarios and fog settings, to discover insights without time and cost overheads of having to deploy prototypes over geo-distributed infrastructure. 
				</div>
	</div>
		<div class="col-lg-4">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="infra.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					Fog Computing Operators
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">who wish to assess the impact of IoT devices to their infrastructure before purchasing and deploying to production.</div>
	</div>

</div>


---
## What can you do with Fogify? 
<p></p>

<div class="container-md">
<div class="row justify-content-center">
   <div class="row">
   <div class="col-lg-12" style="text-align: justify">
   
   ### Topology Editing
   A typical workflow starts with the user editing the docker-compose file of an IoT application, and extend it to encapsulate Fogify's model.
   The Fogify model is composed of: (i) <i>Fog Templates</i>, allowing the description of <i>Services</i>, <i>Nodes</i> and 
   <i>Networks</i>; and (ii) the <i>Fog Topology</i>, enabling users to specify <i>Blueprints</i>. 
   A Blueprint represents an emulated device and is a combination of a <i>Node</i>, <i>Service</i>, <i>Networks</i>, 
   <i>replicas</i> and a <i>label</i>. Services are inherited from docker-compose while the <i>x-fogify</i> 
   section provides all Fogify primitives. Thus, users still develop their application using familiar docker constructs 
   with the added functionality of Fogify not affecting portability. This means that a Fogify enhanced description will 
   run in any docker runtime environment without any alterations, however users will lose the functionality offered by Fogify. 

   ### Deployment
   When the description is ready, the user deploys the application using the FogifySDK through a Jupyter notebook, 
with the description received by the Fogify Controller.
If no error is detected by the Controller, it spawns the emulated devices and creates the overlay mesh networks between them, 
instantiates the services, and broadcasts (any) network constraints to Fogify Agents. 
Specifically, the Controller translates the model specification to underlying orchestration primitives and deploys them 
via the Cluster Orchestrator, ensuring the instantiation of the containerized services on the emulated environment. 
Located on every cluster node, Fogify Agents expose an API to accept requests from the Controller, apply network QoS primitives, and monitor the emulated devices.

### Testing
On a running emulated deployment, Fogify enables developers to apply <i>Actions</i> and "what-if" <i>Scenarios</i> 
(sequences of timestamped actions) on their IoT services, such as ad-hoc faults and topology changes. 
Actions and Scenarios are written by following the Fogify <i>Runtime Evaluation Model</i>. 
When an action or a scenario is submitted, the Fogify Controller coordinates its execution with the Cluster Orchestrator
 and the respective Fogify Agents. 
Furthermore, Fogify captures performance and app-level metrics via the Fogify Agent monitoring module.
All metrics are stored at the Agent's local storage and can be retrieved from the FogifySDK. 

### Analysis

To create an end-to-end interactive analytic tool for emulated deployments, we exploit the FogifySDK capabilities in Jupyter Notebook stack.
Specifically, we pre-installed the FogifySDK library on Jupyter thus the user can (un-) deploy a Fog Topology, apply ad-hoc changes and scenarios, 
and, especially, retrieve runtime performance metrics. For the latter, FogifySDK stores metrics to an in-memory data structure, namely panda's dataframe, 
providing exploratory analysis methods that produce plots and summary statistics. Except of out-of-the-box plots, provided by Pandas, 
we extended FogifySDK with tailored functions that provide a set of plots illustrating and explaining the effects of actions and scenarios in application performance. 
With the wide range of analytic methods provided by FogifySDK, users extract useful insights about QoS, cost, and predictive analytics. 
Finally, users may integrate other libraries, like scikit-learn, to endrose their analysis with ML and AI models. 

   </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

___

## Screenshots and Images
 
<div class="row">
    <p></p>
    <div class="col-lg-4 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="fogify-overview.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify Overview</b></h5></div>
    </div>
    <!--div class="col-lg-3 offset-2" style="margin-top: 40px; text-align: center;">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="model.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify Modeling</b></h5></div>
    </div-->
    <div class="col-lg-5 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="get-started-images/IDE.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify integration with Jupyter</b></h5></div>
    </div>
    <!--div class="col-lg-4 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="plots.jpg" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Example of Fogify's plots</b></h5></div>
    </div-->
</div>

   


<p/>



<div class="row  justify-content-center">
<div class="col-lg-12" style="text-align: justify">



</div>

</div>

---

## Resources

### The Team
The creators of the Fogify are members of the [Laboratory for Internet Computing (LInC), University of Cyprus](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/).
You can find more information about our research activity visit our publications' [page](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12) and our [on-going projects](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=13).


### Publications

For more details about Fogify and our scientific contributions, you can read the papers of [Fogify](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12) 
and a published [Demo](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12).
If you would like to use Fogify for your research, you should include at least on of the following BibTeX entries. 

Fogify's paper BibTeX citation:
{{< code >}}
@inproceedings{Symeonides2020,
author    = {Moysis, Symeonides and Zacharias, Georgiou and Demetris, Trihinas and George, Pallis and Marios D., Dikaiakos},
title     = {Fogify: A Fog Computing Emulation Framework},
year      = {2020},
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
address   = {New York, NY, USA},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 5th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing},
location  = {San Jose, CA, USA},
series    = {SEC ’20}
}
{{</code>}}

Fogify's demo BibTeX citation:
{{< code >}}
@inproceedings{Symeonides2020,
author    = {Moysis, Symeonides and Zacharias, Georgiou and Demetris, Trihinas and George, Pallis and Marios D., Dikaiakos},
title     = {Demo: Emulating Geo-Distributed Fog Services},
year      = {2020},
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
address   = {New York, NY, USA},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 5th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing},
location  = {San Jose, CA, USA},
series    = {SEC ’20}
} 
{{</code>}}


### Acknowledgements
This work is partially supported by the EU Commission through [RAINBOW](https://rainbow-h2020.eu/)  871403 (ICT-15-2019-2020) project 
and by the Cyprus Research and Innovation Foundation through COMPLEMENTARY/0916/0916/0171 project.

Commit message:

initial update documentation for 5G-Slicer

docs-code/content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "Fogify: A Fog Computing Emulation Framework"
description = ""
disableReadmoreNav = true
+++

<div class="row py-3">
    <div class="col-md-12" style="text-align: justify">
      <div class="container">
        <p class="lead">Fogify is an emulation Framework easing the modeling, deployment and experimentation of fog testbeds. 
            Fogify provides a toolset to: model complex fog topologies comprised of heterogeneous resources, 
            network capabilities and QoS criteria; deploy the modelled configuration and services using popular 
            containerized infrastructure-as-code descriptions to a cloud or local environment; experiment, measure and evaluate the deployment by injecting faults and adapting the configuration at runtime to test different 
            "what-if" scenarios that reveal the limitations of a service before introduced to the public.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
</div>    

---

### Features

<div class="row py-3">
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-microchip fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2 " style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Resources Heterogeneity
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					Fogify is able to emulate Fog nodes with heterogeneous resources and capabilities.
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-network-wired fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Network Links Heterogeneity
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					Controlling the link quality,  such  as  network  latency,  bandwidth,  error  rate,  etc.,and  even  reproduce  real-world  node-to-node  and  node-to-network connection traces
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-bug fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Controllable  Faults  and  Alterations
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
                 Changes on  running  topology  by  injecting  faults,  alter  network  quality,and inject (varying) workload and compute resources				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-cloud fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Any-scale  Experimentation
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted" >
				   Scalability  from  topologies  with  a  limited number of nodes, capable to run on a single laptop or PC, tohundreds or thousands nodes, running on a whole cluster.				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-search fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h4 class="card-title">
					Monitoring Capabilities
				</h4>
				<p class="card-text text-muted">
					 Collect, manage, and process metrics from emulated Fog Nodes, network connections, and application-level information seamlessly
				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-md-4">
		<div class="card flex-row border-0">
			<div class="mt-3">
				<span class="fas fa-file-code fa-2x text-primary"></span>
			</div>
			<div class="card-body pl-2" style="display: inline-block; text-align: justify">
				<h5 class="card-title">
					Rapid  Application  Deployment
				</h5>
				<p class="card-text text-muted" >
                    Functional prototypes of an applications, written in docker-compose, demand no modifications to its business logic in order run on Fogify.				</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

---
### Who can use the Fogify Framework?

<div class="row justify-content-center"  style="text-align: center">
	<div class="col-lg-4 justify-content-center">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="developer.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					IoT Service Developers
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">
					who wish to ease the testing of their services in geo-distributed fog settings. 
					With the proposed stack, developers design fog enabled services by using Fogify to rapidly perform multiple tests and compare both well-functionality and performance.
				</div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-lg-4">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="researcher.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					Academic Researchers
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">
					who wish to quickly assess algorithms for fog realms. Such users want to quickly perform their 
analysis over system prototypes, testing scenarios and fog settings, to discover insights without time and cost overheads of having to deploy prototypes over geo-distributed infrastructure. 
				</div>
	</div>
		<div class="col-lg-4">
	<img class="rounded-circle" src="infra.svg" 
	width="140" height="140">
				<h4>
					Fog Computing Operators
				</h4>
				<div class="col-lg-10 text-muted card-body" style="display: inline-block">who wish to assess the impact of IoT devices to their infrastructure before purchasing and deploying to production.</div>
	</div>

</div>


---
## What can you do with Fogify? 
<p></p>

<div class="container-md">
<div class="row justify-content-center">
   <div class="row">
   <div class="col-lg-12" style="text-align: justify">
   
   ### Topology Editing
   A typical workflow starts with the user editing the docker-compose file of an IoT application, and extend it to encapsulate Fogify's model.
   The Fogify model is composed of: (i) <i>Fog Templates</i>, allowing the description of <i>Services</i>, <i>Nodes</i> and 
   <i>Networks</i>; and (ii) the <i>Fog Topology</i>, enabling users to specify <i>Blueprints</i>. 
   A Blueprint represents an emulated device and is a combination of a <i>Node</i>, <i>Service</i>, <i>Networks</i>, 
   <i>replicas</i> and a <i>label</i>. Services are inherited from docker-compose while the <i>x-fogify</i> 
   section provides all Fogify primitives. Thus, users still develop their application using familiar docker constructs 
   with the added functionality of Fogify not affecting portability. This means that a Fogify enhanced description will 
   run in any docker runtime environment without any alterations, however users will lose the functionality offered by Fogify. 

   ### Deployment
   When the description is ready, the user deploys the application using the FogifySDK through a Jupyter notebook, 
with the description received by the Fogify Controller.
If no error is detected by the Controller, it spawns the emulated devices and creates the overlay mesh networks between them, 
instantiates the services, and broadcasts (any) network constraints to Fogify Agents. 
Specifically, the Controller translates the model specification to underlying orchestration primitives and deploys them 
via the Cluster Orchestrator, ensuring the instantiation of the containerized services on the emulated environment. 
Located on every cluster node, Fogify Agents expose an API to accept requests from the Controller, apply network QoS primitives, and monitor the emulated devices.

### Testing
On a running emulated deployment, Fogify enables developers to apply <i>Actions</i> and "what-if" <i>Scenarios</i> 
(sequences of timestamped actions) on their IoT services, such as ad-hoc faults and topology changes. 
Actions and Scenarios are written by following the Fogify <i>Runtime Evaluation Model</i>. 
When an action or a scenario is submitted, the Fogify Controller coordinates its execution with the Cluster Orchestrator
 and the respective Fogify Agents. 
Furthermore, Fogify captures performance and app-level metrics via the Fogify Agent monitoring module.
All metrics are stored at the Agent's local storage and can be retrieved from the FogifySDK. 

### Analysis

To create an end-to-end interactive analytic tool for emulated deployments, we exploit the FogifySDK capabilities in Jupyter Notebook stack.
Specifically, we pre-installed the FogifySDK library on Jupyter thus the user can (un-) deploy a Fog Topology, apply ad-hoc changes and scenarios, 
and, especially, retrieve runtime performance metrics. For the latter, FogifySDK stores metrics to an in-memory data structure, namely panda's dataframe, 
providing exploratory analysis methods that produce plots and summary statistics. Except of out-of-the-box plots, provided by Pandas, 
we extended FogifySDK with tailored functions that provide a set of plots illustrating and explaining the effects of actions and scenarios in application performance. 
With the wide range of analytic methods provided by FogifySDK, users extract useful insights about QoS, cost, and predictive analytics. 
Finally, users may integrate other libraries, like scikit-learn, to endrose their analysis with ML and AI models. 

   </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

___

## Screenshots and Images
 
<div class="row">
    <p></p>
    <div class="col-lg-4 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="fogify-overview.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify Overview</b></h5></div>
    </div>
    <!--div class="col-lg-3 offset-2" style="margin-top: 40px; text-align: center;">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="model.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify Modeling</b></h5></div>
    </div-->
    <div class="col-lg-5 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="get-started-images/IDE.png" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Fogify integration with Jupyter</b></h5></div>
    </div>
    <!--div class="col-lg-4 offset-1" style="margin-top: 40px">
        <img class="img-fluid" src="plots.jpg" />
        <div class="col-12" style="text-align: center"><h5><b>Example of Fogify's plots</b></h5></div>
    </div-->
</div>

   


<p/>



<div class="row  justify-content-center">
<div class="col-lg-12" style="text-align: justify">



</div>

</div>

---

## Resources

### The Team
The creators of the Fogify are members of the [Laboratory for Internet Computing (LInC), University of Cyprus](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/).
You can find more information about our research activity visit our publications' [page](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12) and our [on-going projects](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=13).


### Publications

For more details about Fogify and our scientific contributions, you can read the papers of [Fogify](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12) 
and a published [Demo](http://linc.ucy.ac.cy/index.php?id=12).
If you would like to use Fogify for your research, you should include at least on of the following BibTeX entries. 

Fogify's paper BibTeX citation:
{{< code >}}
@inproceedings{Symeonides2020,
author    = {Moysis, Symeonides and Zacharias, Georgiou and Demetris, Trihinas and George, Pallis and Marios D., Dikaiakos},
title     = {Fogify: A Fog Computing Emulation Framework},
year      = {2020},
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
address   = {New York, NY, USA},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 5th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing},
location  = {San Jose, CA, USA},
series    = {SEC ’20}
}
{{</code>}}

Fogify's demo BibTeX citation:
{{< code >}}
@inproceedings{Symeonides2020,
author    = {Moysis, Symeonides and Zacharias, Georgiou and Demetris, Trihinas and George, Pallis and Marios D., Dikaiakos},
title     = {Demo: Emulating Geo-Distributed Fog Services},
year      = {2020},
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
address   = {New York, NY, USA},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 5th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing},
location  = {San Jose, CA, USA},
series    = {SEC ’20}
} 
{{</code>}}

#### Other Related Publications
<p/>
A. Michailidou, A. Gounaris, M. Symeonides and D. Trihinas, "EQUALITY: Quality-aware intensive analytics on the edge",  *Information Systems, Volume 105, 2022, ISSN 0306-4379*

M. Symeonides, D. Trihinas, G. Pallis, M. D. Dikaiakos, C. Psomas and I. Krikidis "5G-Slicer: An emulator for mobile IoT 
applications deployed over 5G network slices", *2022 ACM/IEEE Conference on Internet of Things Design and Implementation 
(IoTDI), 2022* (more details at the [5G-Slicer documentation](/fogify/5g-slicer.html))

M. Symeonides, D. Trihinas, G. Pallis and M. D. Dikaiakos "Demo: Emulating 5G-Ready Mobile IoT Services", *2022 ACM/IEEE Conference on Internet of Things Design and Implementation (IoTDI), 2022*



### Acknowledgements
This work is partially supported by the EU Commission through [RAINBOW](https://rainbow-h2020.eu/)  871403 (ICT-15-2019-2020) project 
and by the Cyprus Research and Innovation Foundation through COMPLEMENTARY/0916/0916/0171 project.
